Summary: The side effects of function1||function2 are not calculated

Description:
<b>What steps will reproduce the problem?</b>
1. Compile (Math.sin||Math.cos)(0)

<b>What is the expected output? What do you see instead?</b>
Empty output.

<b>What version of the product are you using? On what operating system?</b>
The closure-compiler web service at r114.

<b>Please provide any additional information below.</b>
As a result of this issue goog.now() is considered to have side effects.

Comment:
We can hard code this idiom and recognize it, however, in general side effect propagation is a bit harder.

Nick: I wonder if we can incorporate sideeffect into the type system? Have side 
effectfx free function be a subclass of function, then we can type Math.sin||Math.cos 
to be side effect free.

Comment:
So this is where it helps to have a copy of the dragon book at your desk! ;)

This is a classic of a synthesized attribute. It's a simple matter of figuring out 
the rules of the attribute grammar, and coding it up.

The type inference engine visits CFG nodes in this way: most of TypeInference.java is 
just synthesizing type attributes from child nodes. We'd need a similar (albeit 
simpler) inference engine for side effects.

I don't think we'd actually want to make this part of the type system, though. The 
type lattice doesn't follow the same rules as the side-effect lattice. In particular,  
a side-effect-causing function may be a subtype of a non-side-effect-causing 
function, and vice-versa. It gets even messier when your try to take least common 
supertype of a side-effect function and a non-side-effect function.

Comment:
Synthesized attribute gets us this case but I am thinking of value propagation  like: var f = Math.sin||Math.cos; var g = f || foo.noSideEffectFunc; g();

I think the Cartesian product of a sub lattice (all functions) and another lattice 
(side effects classification) should form another a lattice as well... But you are 
right that is messy.

I feel we are not fully utilizing the power of our type inference system. It can give 
us a lot more solution besides JSDOC types. Instead of mixing new types in the JSDoc 
types, I wonder if we can extend it so it can take in custom type systems. Like the 
function side effect type system lattice.

Thoughts?

Comment:
Andrew ran into this problem when he was writing type tightening. Specifically, you 
want to do an analysis very similar to type inference, but you want to do it over a 
different type lattice. I think he just gave up on trying to parameterize TypeInference 
and wrote a one-off inference engine in TightenTypes. It would be helpful to ask him 
why, and whether it's a good idea to write a separate type inference engine for 
attributes like this. Let's take that discussion off the bug entry and onto the public 
mailing list.

Comment:
I think there are two bugs:
  1.  (Math.sin || Math.cos) in the call above is not a name or getprop expression.
  2.  The definition finder doesn't handle aliases (which is what makes it unable to
find the definition of goog.now which is an alias to Date.now in addition to a
reference to an anonymous function)

The first is fairly easy to fix:  when we encounter a call and what we are calling is
an "or" or "hook" expression, consider the side effects of the left and right
function names.

The second requires keeping track of aliases and expanding them to compute the set of
possible functions.

I'll take a stab at the first issue soon, the later will have to wait until I have
more time unless someone else wants to pick it up.

Comment:
This issue was closed by revision r154.