Summary: Mockito's sources in the central Maven repository should be in a *-sources.jar file

Description:
Right now, in http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/mockito/, the binaries and sources of 
Mockito are packed in the same JAR file (e.g. mockito-all-1.7.jar). This is against 
the Maven conventions. As a result, at least IntelliJ IDEA does not automatically 
detect the sources (i.e. no quick access to documentation, no seeing of method 
parameter names).

The convention in Maven is to have the binaries in one JAR, the sources in another JAR 
whose name is prefixed &quot;-sources&quot; and the javadocs in a third JAR prefixed &quot;-javadoc&quot;. 
See http:// 
maven.apache.org/guides/mini/guide-central-repository- 
upload.html#Manual_upload_of_artifacts

The expected way to organize the files is:

mockito-all-X.Y.jar  -- the .class files and everything that is required at runtime
mockito-all-X.Y-sources.jar  -- the .java files and other sources
mockito-all-X.Y-javadoc.jar  -- the javadocs (I don't use them, but maybe someone else 
likes them)

Organizing them like this makes the library compatible with all Maven users. An added 
benefit is that the binaries JAR becomes about 50% smaller, because the source code 
will be in a separate file.

Comment:
Thanks for reporting. I didn't check with IntelliJ - eclipse dealt just fine with
sources inside jars. We'll fix it in upcoming release.

Comment:
vote here: http://jetbrains.net/jira/browse/IDEA-15406

Comment:
The build now produces jars with sources.

Comment:
Reopened as the rc1 was not release with -sources.jar

Comment:
fixed in rc2. It is already released and available in maven central.

Comment:
It's good that the source JARs exist now, but there are some things that could still 
be improved:

- mockito-core-1.8.0-rc2-sources.jar contains also the sources for hamcrest and 
objenesis, even though their .class files are not in the binary JAR. It should be the 
responsibility of the external hamcrest and objenesis artifacts to have those 
sources.

- mockito-all-1.8.0-rc2-sources.jar does NOT contain the sources for hamcrest and 
objenesis. Did the -core and -all source artifacts get mixed up?

- The binary JARs for rc2 appear to still contain also the .java files, which makes 
them larger than is necessary. It's enough for the binary JARs to contain only the 
.class files.

- The -core sources JAR contains also the .class files for hamcrest. The source JARs 
should contain only the source code.

Comment:
That's a great feedback. Thanks a lot for your diligence! I'm on it.

Comment:
I like the fact sources are packed with binary, as some IDE handles it well. I also 
don't think it adds that much to the size of the binary.

We'll fix the sources jars for maven.

Comment:
mockito-core JAR with sources and binaries takes 1189 KB. The same JAR with only 
binaries takes 629 KB. So sources make it 90% larger.

Since Mockito is not usually distributed with other programs, it's only a test time 
dependency, the size does not matter too much.

Comment:
It's a very good point about the size of the jar. On the other hand, the fact that
sources are inside makes it totally painless to start browsing source code/javadocs
in most decent IDEs. This means increased chance for users getting information
quicker and potential contributors debugging framework code with useful
feedback/patches/etc. Also, as you pointed out, mockito is not distributed with the
program hence larger size becomes the a reasonable trade-off.

Comment:
Hmmm, most Esko points should be fixed before the final 1.8

Comment:
Oh right. Everything seems to be in order now.

Thanks Esko for testing the jars & raising this issue!

Thanks Igor for the fix!